First step, read David's notes from the converter, specifically the 'Modifications
made to the spell system' section:

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gibberlings3/IWDSpells/master/dw_iwdspells/readme.txt

Everything else here are notes from Cam. For the most part it's a running list of changes
made for oBG2 compatibility (mainly so I can update the readme easier) but in a few cases 
I've made changes that contradict or enhance changes from the converter. 

One quick note: this is not, by any means, final. I'm open to discussion on any of this. 

Alignment-restricted spells: The converter correctly identifies (and corrects) that the 
various inverse divine necromantics spells (Cause Disease, Cause X Wounds, etc.) are
alignment-restricted in IWD but not in BG/2 and removes these restrictions upon import. 
However, it does this with a slightly too-broad brush, and the following spells are
re-restricted:

  * (Greater) Shield of Lathander: unavailable to evil characters. Greater Shield is also
    restricted from neutrals in IWDEE, but given that Lathander clerics can be LN I've
    only made this non-evil.
  * Cloud of Pestilence: only available to evil characters
  * Mass Cause Light Wounds: Made cleric-only, as druids can't cast any of the Cause X
    Wounds series. This is a change from IWDEE.

Old IWD resources: The imported spells had a few leftover calls (mainly 318/206) against
IWD spells not present in BG/2, and these are purged. I've also re-instituted the
cross-patches, where e.g. divine spells are checked against arcane spells and these
protections re-added as appropriate.

Scroll usability fixes: Arcane spell scrolls were still using the IWD school system, so
kit usabilities were generally wrong. The divine scrolls were not reflecting the underlying
spell restrictions (e.g. druid vs. cleric). In both cases, I iterate through the scrolls
and dynamically apply the underlying spell's restrictions to the scroll.

Summons: I just run everything through a check and make sure the inventory is undroppable
and that they use the correct summon AI script. In oBG2, the mod will check if expanded
animations are available through Infinity Animations are use the IWD versions as
appropriate, but otherwise will use existing oBG2 animations. oBG2 also doesn't allow
the cool animations defined by the tables so these spells just play some generic
summoning animations.

The Song of Kaudies: The 50% protection from 'any other sound-based attacks' is open to
a lot of interpretation. In addition to its existing protections against silence, (Great) 
Shout, (Greater) Command, and Wail of the Banshee, we've extended protections for War
Cry, Demilich Howl, and Moon Dog Howl. In previous versions this song also protected
against Power Words, but after some discussion these protections have been dropped. 

The rest of these notes apply only to oBG2.

General opcode changes:
  * Visual opcodes 7, 8, and 9 are fine unless they use 255 (everything) as param2.
    These are converted to a series targeting param2 values of 0-6 (various body parts).
  * Op 12 (damage) is problematic if it's flagged as 'split for half', an EE-exclusive
    flag. These are systematically split into two op 12s. Similarly, HP drains are
    also converted to plain damage + HP gains.
  * Op 61 gets converted to a series of op 50s. I'm looking into whether this is the
    best soilution.
  * Op 126/176: Movement speed increase does not have a mode 5 in oBG2 (multiply %)
    so these are shifted to mode 2 (set % of).
  * Op 318/324: For the most part these are converted to 177 opcodes, using EFFs 
    targeting the underlying group. In some cases they cannot be converted.
  * Op 321: Unfortunately, oBG2 lacks this awesome opcode, and generally one of
    three solutions were used: using op 206 with a duration equal to the spell
    to prevent stacking; deletion; or knocking certain effects into a subspell
    and preventing that from stacking.
  * Op 325 (all save bonus) is converted to five save bonus opcodes (33-37).
  * Op 333 is transformed into a series of time-delayed cast opcodes (146).

Spells that won't work on oBG2: (Great) Shout, Soul Eater, Seven Eyes, Mold Touch, Favor
of Ilmater, Smashing Wave, Wall of Moonlight, and Spiritual Wrath are unavailable in oBG2.
Cat's Grace works on oBG2 with TobEx installed, and Giant Insect will be installed if
the beetle animation from Infinity Animations is installed. Mordenkainen's Force Missiles
are currently skipped, though I've been told someone else has amde it work so I'm currently
looking into it. 

Spells with 'cloud' animations: oBG2 is a lot more restricted on projectiles, so these
spells simulate a cloud-based effect: Suffocate, Spike Growth, Cloudburst, Cloud of
Pestilence, Spike Stones, Mist of Eldath. While the AoE is correct, the way these are
simulated (an invisible creature spawning further invisible creatures to play VVCs) 
means that the visuals are likely underselling the AoE.

Portrait Icons: Unlike the EEs, there's no way to easily extend states.bam to support
additional portrait icons. For spells these are either purged or substitued. I do have
an expanded states.bam from a pull request that I will likely make available on oBG2
as a separate component, as it will overwrite anyone else's changes to states.bam.

Shroud of Flame is basically rebuilt from the ground up. It's simualted well except
for the spread from creature to creature. I've been unable to get this to work reliably
so for now it does everything except that. 

Iron Body: Since 'paws' are always dispelled in oBG2, I've moved all of the effects from
the spell to the paw. This is to avoid the awkward situation where the iron fist has 
been dispelled but the other spell effects remain active.

Mordenkainen's Force Blade: Like Iron Body above, the spell effects are moved to the
sword. Unfortunately since this spell varies based on level, a series of Force Blades 
are created. 

Static Charge: In oIWD and EEs, this is a spell applied to the caster that zaps a
nearby target once per turn. In oBG2 this spell is reduced to something you cast
on another creature that will simply zap them until they die or the spell ends.

Blood Rage: There's no way to mask hit points in oBG2, and the only-ally casting
is also problematic. Instead the spell is restricted to green-circled creatures
by using EFFs targeting EA values. I could not get this to work with an ally-only
projectile. 

Thorn Spray: Basically uses a Cone of Cold-style projectile on oBG2. 

Righteous Wrath of the Faithful: Works, but uses a ton of EFFs and subspells. 

Undead Ward: This spell summons an invisble cleric to turn undead, so its AoE
is effectively visual range instead of the listed 10-ft. radius. 

Whirlwind: Another projectile issue, this spell basically creates an invisible
creature with the Whirlwind animation and then moves him about randomly. Any
creature that gets too close gets hit with a subspell like Globe of Blades. 







